well hours after that attack the Israeli
military sent out a new advisory it's
urging residents of Gaza City to head
south to a so-called humanitarian Zone
where they can collect Aid zfat Al khut
is inside the Gaza Strip and joins us
now on the phone saart first of all tell
us about this advisory and how the
Israeli Army is spreading news about
it look from the beginning of the war
the Israeli War in Gaza the Israeli Army
has been uh inter the local radio
stations and have been publishing and
has been publishing this this warning uh
through uh pre-recorded messages so this
this is not something new but they have
been updating the areas in the Gaza and
the north of the Gaza so the recent or
the most recent uh warning is to some
neighborhoods in Gaza City like sh zun n
and other places there asking people to
uh evacuate these neighborhoods to the
south of the Gaza Strip while still now
until now until last night I met people
from Gaza who uh were displaced from
Gaza into the South and now are
considering returning to their homes in
Gaza and in the north because of lack of
everything here in in the South the
south of the Gaza Strip is not an
independent entity or independent
governor governor
uh the whole STP depend on the same
supplier and depend on the same Crossing
so once the Israeli say to go to the
humanitarian places where are they we
spend the whole day looking for uh some
water some food and some bread this is
the case all over the Gaza Strip people
are lining up at bakeries and at water
in the south in the north and in Gaza
City the same in the South and other
places uh the people here in Gaz used to
call the Gaza used to before the war the
biggest open air prison in the world now
they call it the biggest refugee camp in
the world since all the population of
the Gaza Strip 2.3 million became
refugees and have been displacing from
uh from a place to another last night
myself I have to take my family and find
look for another place because there
were uh some explosions in near uh near
the place the new place where I
evacuated
so this is not only my case it's it's
the this is the same scenario everywhere
we go ZF this is what I'm wondering
given the the dire conditions there in
Gaza the air strikes 12 days of Siege
I'm wondering whether This Promise of
Aid This Promise of a so-called
humanitarian Zone will mean that people
will follow this
advisory hello safwat can you hear me
yes I safw do you think people will
follow this advisory given that they've
been promised
Aid look United Nation just released a a
new statement saying that Gaza run out
of water and fuel and soon it will run
out of food this is the main
humanitarian supplier in the Gaza Strip
so this is at the highest level so in
terms of practical terms in Gaza the
supermarkets the providers the stocks
every Everybody every side say that the
stocks or the uh the warehouses run out
of everything in terms of essential food
stuff ZF if you could tell us a little
bit about the aftermath of this Israeli
strike on the hospital in uh the north
there in Gaza 500 people dead was the
last death toll that we have do you have
any update on the sit situation well the
minister of H say still they have not
recognized some of uh or many of these
the people who were killed the the
majority of them according to the
minister of Health are children and
women have been Sheltering in the
hospital and it's not only in this
Hospital in many places since the
Israelis uh warned the people or asked
the people to evacuate uh the the
governmental press office in Gaza uh
they asked the people to part for wide
public participation in a funeral that
will be held later by the way in Gaza
they don't bury all these bodies uh in
the cemeteries they just big dig big
holes and bury all of them together so
they collected burying in all of the
Gaza Strip from south to North so uh we
will we will wait or we are waiting for
further notice to uh uh regarding the
timing and the details for the the
funeral the collective funeral of the
buddies or or the victims of the
hospital okay safwat Al cute we'll keep
an eye on events there in Gaza
throughout the day thanks very much for
joining us